In previous sessions I told you the basic concepts of Java and we created three basic structures or
three basic classes inside Java.
First is server, second is client, and third is chat message.
So hope you understand this part.
You can create one package also and you can use that also here.
But I'm going with directly like this.
So let us see what we are going to do here now.
So first, what I'm going to mention is here some unique IDs and private variables to establish the
connection.
So first is basically unique ID for each connection like I'm considering here two three clients at a
time or for the connection client means user again.
So for each connection we need to create unique ID for that purpose.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to mention a private.
Static.
I'm using your static keyword.
Standing in.
Unique ID.
So this green color, as you can see, is here because we haven't created this part.
And.
Okay.
We haven't used that part then.
I'm considering you as a realist.
So what is the ArrayList?
Basically, it's composed of a plus list.
You can consider, like, that single database inside the list to keep.
Least of all clients.
So what I'm going to create is here again, private.
At least.
So it will invoke this part.
Let me do one thing, which is basically default library released.
Which is basically I'm going to create easier.
Lion.
Third.
I haven't mentioned the client trade and etc., but here in later part I will explain what is the client?
Read each and everything here.
Now to display time.
When that is mentioned, what I'm going to do is we're.
Private.
There is one default.
Simple date format, which is basically debt.
Is DFI mentioning here for simple data format.
Then.
World connection.
It's also your private.
In.
All.
Jake Sullivan resigning or not?
I'm going to create this Boolean Boolean variable.
Again.
It should be private.
Always private boolean.
Keep mentioning these.
Keep going.
As William part and notification is basically nothing but you can say the.
What?
If you have seen some what we can say notification type.
We can bring this.
Considering Star stars three star before any notification.
So this is all about how we can do so.
This.
I'm up the server basically.
So I mentioned all things here.
I will tell you what is client said in later part.
But remember this.
Now let us create one constructor here.
Constructor.
Instructor to.
You sue the.
For.
Listen, I will tell you what is the listening and each and every part to for.
Connection parameter.
So I will mention it will be the.
Okay.
Let us consider this only.
So the board basically forced this dot.
Okay.
Let me mention for.
Public Server Default constructor.
I'm considering your import.
Then.
The board is basically this dot board is equal to board.
Display.
Date.
Or the displaying date that what I'm going to create here is d f.
Is equal to new.
Simple format you have to mention and introduce.
You have to mention a church or whatever we need.
We need.
Then circumstance.
What am I?
As I mentioned you.
So this is basically the pattern.
We need to create a list also here because I'm mentioning it.
At least for.
Clients.
L is equal to new.
And copy this part because.
This is very.
Similar.
And I'm going to use this only.
So I will tell you what is we are going to create a year and each and everything.
So this is all about our basic setup of server.
So in later years I will explain everything from the socket and each and everything.
So remember what I did is here.
I created some variables or you can say define things here.
First is unique ID to create each and every time.
Unique ID for each connection.
You need ID?
Then I created a list which consists of client traits.
I will tell you how we can create client within each and everything.
It is basically name as l simple date and format to mention the date and date format here.
Then private int basically for the port connection.
Then server running to check server is running or not.
I'm going to create a boolean for keep going and again string to create a notification before any message
or before anything.
I'm creating a notification part.
So these all things are in the.
What we can say Java only in private.
Only private because for the what we can see abstraction, purpose, no one can change this part.
Then in public, I'm considering your constructor to receive port to listen basically which is public
server import and export.
I'm assigning directly then display date and ArrayList for the clients.
So this is all about how we can create each and everything part.
So in the further part, I will tell you what is the basic socket and each and everything.
So now we are set up with our basic things.
So let us consider what is things we are going to use here.
So we are considering here as a socket.
What is a socket?
You know, the electric socket.
Each and every plug has a socket.
You need to put inside that socket.
Basically electric socket.
Or we can say electric supply socket.
Similarly, socket is a one in point of two way communication link between two programmes running on
the network.
So server and client server has some socket inside that part.
Using a port and server address.
I'm going to create your socket.
What clients will do?
Clients will plug their code on that socket and it will be throughout the network.
So using such mechanism, I'm going to create a communication link between many clients or clients and
server.
The socket mechanism provides internal process communication IPC by establishing name as a contact point
between two communication.
We again mentioned the name for that contact communication also.
So this is the basic thing of socket.
So we can create a socket inside server.
We are going to create socket inside server only.
No need to create a socket inside client because we are providing a client interface or we can say we
are providing a user interface for clients only not we are going to create server part here.
So for that purpose we are going to create socket inside only server.
Here.
I am considering TCP protocol.
What is TCP protocol in?
Networking is a transmission control protocol.
Protocol is basically that user top of IP IP address to ensure the transmission of packets.
So all the data, all we are going to use here is converted into bytecode.
It converts into packets it will display to the another plant.
So likewise that it will create and TCP includes some mechanisms like if lost or packet out of order
packet corrupted packets.
It tells you that part and also Java uses that part.
So what is the listening is basically TCP listening is basically server is waiting for the clients to
connect.
That part is a listening.
So for that purpose I created a boolean variable.
Keep going.
That is, my server is running.
Now you can use that part.
You can say you can connect any client to that server.
So this is basic for the server.
Or we can say it is simple thing, like I created a socket inside server.
Now the socket I create socket which conceals many ports and any mini clients you use that part or you
can use that socket.
And now my server is like on the network, any client can connect that part.
So this is all about all the things.
So what is the server and clients basically?
Server is basically you can system which consists all the server side code clients had some client side
quotes throughout the internet.
We can connect that server to I can see tell you that this is the socket for creating or connecting
the client to the server.
So what is the team is behind this whole system is going to work.
If my client one is running on this, it will go through the Internet.
It will go to the server.
Server will use that and check that which clients he wants to or she wants to that send that.
It will check if it's for all.
It will go to the all.
If not, it will go to the that particular client.
And then that second client is also connected using the same socket, but different same socket.
Or we can say same for each and everything, but the part or connection is different, like connecting
to three wires inside, same socket, you can say as electrical part.
Similarly, I'm going to do this.
So these are all about the server client I'm going to consider.
I'm not considering this mobile device, but I added here, but I'm not creating any mobile device interface
or anything.
So TCP server client process, I'm going to explain, but what is this client process and server process?
Because as a multi trading part, as I told you, we can run many processes in Java or we can run mini
programs inside of Java.
So TCP is a server process and client process divided.
So client process considering socket layer, protocol layer, device layer.
So you can say I can use such parts and I can connect client to the server and I can connect many clients
to that server for the connection of many client.
I'm going to use your multithreading part, so let us see how we can create such things inside Java.
So for as I told you, inside server program, I already created this.
Now I need to mention a public void start so I will explain what is the basic thing is here is.
Start.
So what is public void?
START is basically starting my process.
Now I am mentioning keep going is equal to two because it should be.
So what is life?
Life means basically a life.
It's running.
No.
I am going to create a socket.
So good server.
And with for connection.
Request.
I'm going to wait for connection request.
Now, always remember, create a track block here first.
But before the trial explaining the catch.
I will create a logic inside only first.
Socket used by server because I'm.
Mentioning here which socket my server is going to use the areas.
So what?
Sock it.
So remember this.
I'm going to mention this again.
What is server socket?
So for this purpose I need to import Java eight library.
My ID explains that you need to import Java library here.
So what I can do is.
I will import.
Java dot net dot stuff.
Also what I'm going to do is here.
I'm going to start.
So as you can see man, this is raining.
So inside java need library server.
Socket method is already no need to create from basic socket e generating.
The syntax is very similar.
Server socket.
I need to mention the poor.
So that's it.
I'm going to create here.
So why this is showing me?
Because I haven't create a Clash blog, so.
Now I'm in infinite loop to wait for connection.
So.
Why we need infinite loop because.
Or our program should always.
Our program should always listening for a request from clients to connect our server.
For that purpose, I'm considering the infinite loop.
So in the next part, I'm going to explain how we can create in final, infinite loop and each and everything.
So I will use some default codes and each and everything.
In the next part I will explain this.
So this is all about how we can do the server socket.
I already created a server socket which is using this.